## SS7(Signalling System 7)
- **What?** Ttelephony signaling protocols developed in 1975, which is used to set up and tear down telephone calls in public switched telephone network (PSTN). The protocol also performs number translation, local number portability, prepaid billing, Short Message Service (SMS), and other services.

## GSM (Global system for Mobile Communication)
### Components
  - **BTS(Base transceiver station):** Transceiver means a Unit which can transmit/receive both. This is Mobile Tower.
  - **BSC(Base station controller):** This manages all BTS in Area.
  - **BSS(Base station Subsystem):** contains number of BTS and BSCs
  - **NSS(N/W Station subsystem):**  Contains MSC.
  - **MSC(Mobile Switching Center):** This manages Switching(Means connecting phone call from 1 end to other). MSC is assisted with registers.
     - *a. HLR(Home Location register):* Stores permanent location of user, SIM is registered with Permanent address here.
     - *b. VLR (Visitor location register):* In case of handover, when person moves from 1 to other location. Now these locations are stored here.
     - *c. EIR(Equipment identity register):* This is used to check user falls in which list. Three lists are there
        - White list: Normal users
        - Grey list: Service denied users. Eg: Blocked incoming/outgoing.
        - Black list: All users who are blocked.
     - *d. AUC(Authentication Center):* There is an key stored on SIM(Subscriber Identity Module) card. Same key is stored here. When SIM wants to communicate this key is matched and permitted to use services.
     - *e. IN(Intelligent N/W):* This is Billing section for prepaid connections. For postpaid bills are generated by MSC.  
   - **SMSC(Short Message service center):** If we need to send SMS this unit is called. For calling MSC is called.
   - **GMSC(Gateway MSC):** Whenver we require to connect to another MSC(Eg in case of international calling). Then call passes from MSC1=> GMSC => MSC2

### Architecture
```html

Mobile
        <-----BTS---->
        /\
       /  \                                              ---------
      /BTS1\              <NSS>                         | Internet  |  
                BSC        MSC   <--|----> SMSC ------- |           |
        /\                          |                    --------- 
       /  \                         |----> GMSC
      /BTS2\                                 |
                                             |
                                            MSC-2
      
```
